# Assignment 3 - Reflection

Name: Amaya Keys   
CSCI 363 - Spring '26

The major difference between Assignment 2 and Assignment 3 implementations is the design and organization of the core logic. Assignment 2 utilizes a procedural approach in which all program logic is stored within a single class. The ETLPipeline class handled all system functions including reading the file, cleaning and validating the data, transforming it according to the given requirements, writing the output, and printing a summary. Assignment 3 reorganized this structure to separate all distinct functions into multiple classes using key object-oriented principles. The restructured implementation has the following four classes: ETLPipeline, Product, ProductTransformer, and CSVProcessor. The CSVProcessor class handles reading the input CSV file, validating the field entries (ensuring there is no missing or invalid information), and using the ProductTransformer class to write the transformed output to a new CSV file. The ProductTransformer class applies all of the transformation logic, including uppercasing the product name, applying the 10% discount for electronics, changing applicable electronics to premium, and determining the price range. It accepts an object from the Product class as input and returns a CSV row as a string containing the ProductID, Name, Price, Category, and, PriceRange. The Product class constructs, represents, and returns objects that contain the specific data fields of a product record. Before, the Product data was stored in scattered variables that had no systematic structure or grouping. Now, all product-related data is organized in an object, which exhibits the object-oriented principle of encapsulation. Lastly, the ETLPipeline class contains the main method of the program that is responsible for checking if a CSV file exists and starting the ETL process. Before, the main method was quite lengthy and complex. However, now it simply runs CSVProcessor and hides the rest of the details inside classes, exhibiting the object-oriented principle of abstraction. After restructuring, I was able to easily run main() in ETLPipeline to create transformed_products.csv and compare it to the output from Assignment 2, which proved to produce the same result. The delegation of responsibilities into separate classes has now allowed the program to be easier to understand, debug, modify, and test, exhibiting the object-oriented principle of modularity and reusability. 
